oh no wait I was screaming
[Music]
what's going on guys welcome to another
video good morning good afternoon or
good night depending on when and where
you are watching the vid so right now I
am in the car on the way to the shed for
the 3rd day of the camp it is a
Wednesday
it is about 10:30 right now and I have
about half an hour to get there been
sucking a little bit of traffic so have
to be there by 11:00 but I should be
okay
so I want to do something a little bit
different for today's video as you can
kind of tell I just have my GoPro in my
hand driving along and I wanted to make
a video going into more depth about how
to get sponsored these days because it
is so so much different to it back when
I first started riding and back when I
first got sponsored so I want to give my
opinion and kind of a bit of advice to
people now that are trying to get
sponsored because it is a lot different
so I want to try my best absolute best
to keep this clip just completely uncut
and raw I might end up deciding to put
some like footage in the background
maybe some of my old edits from back
when I was first getting sponsored my
welcome to edits and stuff like that
just so you guys have something to look
at other than my ugly head but I'm gonna
try my best to keep it I'm cut I'm
driving so I'm not really gonna be
looking at the camera anything so I do
apologize to that in advance but safety
first you know so let's kind of just
jump straight into this because I see a
lot of a lot of people these days who
are really good but they're unspun surd
or they have little sponsors it could
deserve something that is absolutely
amazing and a lot of people kind of kick
up a fast and a lot of people don't
understand why so I'm just going to give
you guys a bit more
of like an insight I guess kind of like
my opinion and just advice to help you
guys work toward something like that so
pretty much the way the way the
sponsorship works is it goes hand in
hand generally the whole concept of a
sponsorship in anything not just
scooters it could be in skateboarding it
could be in in seriously anything it
could be an ad that sponsors a radio
station or a TV channel or anything like
that
the whole point is is that you both get
something out of it and that you both
benefit from whatever you doing so I'm
going to try to make this as
understandable as possible for a lot of
the younger viewers and stuff like that
because I know a lot older people will
get this anyone that's in high school or
obviously I'm here in college and stuff
they're probably smarter than me but not
that I'm like not smart but alright go
into like business and stuff like that
it is for a young kid is very very hard
to understand it was for me anyway when
I was a younger kid although as I said
it was a lot different so back when I
used to when I first started riding
there weren't many sponsorships being
thrown around there's no such thing as
all these companies that are now made
like apex when I first started wasn't
even invented wasn't even a thing
MGP only just came around maybe like a
year after I started riding as a company
that was trying to sponsor riders and
stuff like that
back when I oh so it was all like razor
I see guys it was sponsored by razor and
micro like when Terry priced on micro I
thought it was like it was insane I
never understood how like what a
sponsorship was I remember when I first
got my first ever sponsor I used to get
like every second scooter free but if
I'd ever break the scooter he'd want the
brake back off of this
it was weird it was really weird but you
know what like to me as a kid I'm
getting a free scooter that was awesome
that was the best thing ever so now it's
a lot it's a lot more social media back
in the back when I started it was a lot
more like edits in general so it was
more so like you'll put out a really
good effort and your name will get
thrown around like nothing will get
thrown around like crazy it'd be
everywhere you know everyone would be
reposted on facebook or myspace or
whatever it was and that's how you would
get kind of your recognition because
giving back then is there was like a lot
more limited amount of riders that were
really well known and were recognized of
someone that could be like a pro rider
or anything like that that deserve to be
sponsored and deserve to get something
from it so for for now it's it's like a
little bit different because it's more
on Instagram it's more Instagram clips
and photos and all that type of stuff
but what what I think now the better
part about now is it's a lot more active
although I do definitely prefer to see
you know like good edits then a single
Instagram clip that goes for 20 seconds
that people don't really put much effort
into all that has these weird songs
everyone wants to use on the Instagram
like nothing against it I I probably do
it too but it's just not what it used to
be it's not even not even close to what
it used to be at because interim didn't
even exist back then
makes you sound like a dinosaur so now
it's hard because you have all these all
these really good kids that are unknown
that might have little sponsors and they
want to go to a pro team or there might
be an amazing amazing rider but they're
not on approach and everyone kind of
questions why I like and the one thing
that people kind of need to understand
is that when getting a sponsorship you
have to be of value whether that means
you're really good with parents and kids
or whether you're a really good writer
or a really good representative really
good at competitions like there's a lot
of different ways you can be a value to
a company but you need to do your best
to make them see that because you can't
just hand in and edit nowadays like
there's that many good riders that why
why is your edit any better than the
next that's what that's what everyone
wants to know you know like it when you
have that into a company they're not
going to say oh like that edit was was
really good they're going to compare it
to anyone else on their team and they're
going to say okay
for what reason would we put him on
instead of just keeping someone else
that's on our team what difference will
it make
that's what and that's what that's what
the boy was down to that's and it sucks
because you can't just fill up a team
with a million riders if if every time a
good rider sent in a video to MV or to
MGP or to Apex or anything like that
that the team would be overflowing with
people just overflowing like you
wouldn't be able to it wouldn't it
wouldn't even work because you had that
many people they'd be handing out that
much stuff dude yeah it wouldn't there's
only so much so like particular things
say for example myself being a Melbourne
rider 4mb in Australia here when Max was
on the team and it was
and I in Melbourne I'm sorry if it's
really dark and you can't see her going
through the tunnel when Max and I run
out when he was on the team and we with
the Melbourne rod is we had other people
representing MV although they weren't on
the pro team and there's a reason for it
and that is mainly because we already
have Max and I who have quite a large
following himself to put another person
on it's it's kind of like it's not that
it's not going to be beneficial because
it would be to an extent but it's just
it would be something that would happen
more down the line in the future say now
for example that max isn't on the team
they might consider to put someone else
on that's why that's why they do these
things like flow and they have you know
the younger kids they put them on flow
usually all the people that they have
they see a lot of potential in and then
they'll move them up to pro eventually
which is what happened with Dylan
Sinclair I'm pretty sure he just got
moved to pro so it's yeah so in that
position it's a little bit when I first
started it was there wasn't so much flow
for me I've never been on a flow team it
was a waste ran straight to a pro rider
back then because I wasn't really that
that design wasn't really around in that
system didn't really exist back then it
just didn't happen but now they've got
it down you know they've got the people
they they start from the bottom and they
have the pro people mentor them and
eventually they become
you know I'm awesome and they become a
pro writer and everything else they they
learn how to speak with parents they
learn how to speak with kids they learn
how to portray themselves and an image
all over the social media or what events
and that's that's pretty much how it
works but yeah so in terms of what I
would advise people to do when they are
trying to get sponsored it would be to
be a persistent don't it's like don't
necessarily knock back a flow offer if
you really offer by company and they see
more discuss asked like would there be
potential for me to eventually move up
if they say yes that's awesome then you
know maybe walk towards that whether you
end up standing with the company or not
that's really matter because you're
gonna learn a lot in the process of just
being a flow right if they send you to
event you're going to learn you're gonna
learn a lot because I've seen I've seen
that happen with a lot of kids you know
like a lot of kids now would just flow
riders at the time like back in back
when probably half the people watching
this didn't even ride you wouldn't even
know but they'll flow riders and then
now they've they've moved up like from
younger kids to now they're just pro
riders winning comps and yeah I think
the way of getting sponsored now is it
is a lot harder because there is it's so
much like it's more popular there's so
many more kids trying to get sponsored
that it makes it harder but my advice is
be persistent you know get make sure
your names out there be posting as often
as possible but make sure you're posting
good quality content otherwise it might
not go your way like it might not get
the feedback you want if you're just
posting stuff you know isn't that great
be this post into posing so quantity
over quality always remember that my
GoPro has like 10 seconds left
and this whole clip this roll that is
annoying
I'll read deletes often two seconds
maybe all right still going all right
I'm just gonna get gone until it shuts
off but pretty good it's a it's like it
sucks away it is now in my opinion just
because back back then we said back then
like 50 times in this video but it was a
lot different it was more so off pure
skill and how dedicated you were to
making edits and stuff like that there's
a bit of a shame that is taking a
different route and I think most pro
riders will agree with that but at the
same time it's how it is and you just
have to accept it and you just and we're
back
you know might go for a run out of space
on the SD card so I just lead a clip
that went for like five minutes now I
got a little bit more time to play with
but I'm pretty much gonna end off the
video here I just wanted to talk about
that a little bit give you guys a bit of
an understanding
so yeah just more advice like just just
make yourself valuable to a company in
some way if your aim is to get sponsored
if you guys ride for fine that's the
best thing ever that's even that's
awesome like I that's what we're all
doing anyway riding for fun you know
sponsorship is part of it and it comes
with it as a perk not necessarily the
main objective of riding if that makes
sense so if you don't get sponsored
don't get too hot about it you know just
enjoy riding enjoy having a fun time
with your friends and learn new tricks
put out some edits I still would love to
see edits you know if I see edits I
share them around I do send them to mV
and so you know like check out this kid
we're sharing things and adverbs all the
time so just really apply yourself if
that is your goal you want your name to
be there all the time you know you want
you want everyone to know who you are
you want Pro rise to know who are
but then again your personality is a
huge thing that comes with it if you're
an awesome writer with a horrible
personality in my opinion if you come to
me I'm not going to push that forward
and be because we don't want someone
like that on the team but yeah so I hope
you guys enjoyed this video hope it
helped you add a little bit it gave some
people a bit more of an understanding as
to why not everyone's on a pro team and
not everyone sponsored I don't know if I
missed anything but I'm like almost at
the shared part of like ten minutes out
which is good I really need to go to the
toilet but you know up I don't know what
anyway I hope you guys enjoyed this
video if you did make sure you leave a
like comment subscribe let me know your
guy's opinion let me know what you guys
think about how sponsorships and
everything work these days and how it is
and how edits on social media and
everything else but anyway I hope you
guys have an absolutely awesome day I
love you all and that's going to be me
so
[Music]